## **Non Fungible Token Royalties and Payouts Standard**

https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/neps/nep-0199.md

## **Summary and Motivation:**

An interface allowing non-fungible token contracts to request that financial contracts pay-out multiple receivers, enabling flexible royalty implementations. This standard defines a set of methods for financial contracts to call, without specifying how NFT contracts define the divide of payout mechanics, and a standard Payout response structure. This allows for greater flexibility in NFT ownership and payout mechanics, including but not limited to royalties.

## **Specifications**:

This Payout extension standard adds two methods to NFT contracts:

- a view method: nft_payout, accepting a token_id and some balance, returning the Payout mapping for the given token.
- a call method: nft_transfer_payout, accepting all the arguments ofnft_transfer, plus a field for some Balance that calculates the Payout, calls nft_transfer, and returns the Payout mapping.

Financial contracts MUST validate several invariants on the returned Payout:

1. The returned Payout MUST be no longer than the given maximum length (max_len_payout parameter) if provided. Payouts of excessive length can become prohibitively gas-expensive. Financial contracts can specify the maximum length of payout the contract is willing to respect with the max_len_payout field on nft_transfer_payout.
2. The balances MUST add up to less than or equal to the balance argument in nft_transfer_payout. If the balance adds up to less than the balance argument, the financial contract MAY claim the remainder for itself.
3. The sum of the balances MUST NOT overflow. This is technically identical to 2, but financial contracts should be expected to handle this possibility.

Financial contracts MAY specify their own maximum length payout to respect. At minimum, financial contracts MUST NOT set their maximum length below 10.

If the Payout contains any addresses that do not exist, the financial contract MAY keep those wasted payout funds.

Financial contracts MAY take a cut of the NFT sale price as commission, subtracting their cut from the total token sale price, and calling nft_transfer_payout with the remainder.

## **Class and function headers:**

```
/// A mapping of NEAR accounts to the amount each should be paid out, in

/// the event of a token-sale. The payout mapping MUST be shorter than the

/// maximum length specified by the financial contract obtaining this

/// payout data. Any mapping of length 10 or less MUST be accepted by

/// financial contracts, so 10 is a safe upper limit.


pub struct Payout {

pub payout: HashMap&lt;AccountId, U128>,

}
```

```
pub trait Payouts{

/// Given a `token_id` and NEAR-denominated balance, return the `Payout` struct for the given token. Panic if the length of the payout exceeds `max_len_payout.`

nft_payout(&self, token_id: String, balance: U128, max_len_payout: u32) -> Payout;

/// Given a `token_id` and NEAR-denominated balance, transfer the token

/// and return the `Payout` struct for the given token. Panic if the

/// length of the payout exceeds `max_len_payout.`

#[payable]

nft_transfer_payout(&mut self, receiver_id: AccountId, token_id: String, approval_id: u64, balance: U128, max_len_payout: u32) -> Payout

}
```
