## **Fungible Token Standard**

https://github.com/near/NEPs/blob/master/neps/nep-0141.md

## **Summary and Motivation**

A standard interface for fungible tokens that allows for a normal transfer as well as a transfer and method call in a single transaction. The storage standard addresses the needs (and security) of storage staking. The fungible token metadata standard provides the fields needed for ergonomics across dApps and marketplaces.

NEAR Protocol uses an asynchronous, sharded runtime. This means the following:

- Storage for different contracts and accounts can be located on the different shards.
- Two contracts can be executed at the same time in different shards.

While this increases the transaction throughput linearly with the number of shards, it also creates some challenges for cross-contract development. For example, if one contract wants to query some information from the state of another contract (e.g. current balance), by the time the first contract receives the balance the real balance can change. In such an async system, a contract can't rely on the state of another contract and assume it's not going to change.

Instead the contract can rely on temporary partial lock of the state with a callback to act or unlock, but it requires careful engineering to avoid deadlocks. In this standard we're trying to avoid enforcing locks. A typical approach to this problem is to include an escrow system with allowances. This approach was initially developed for NEP-21 which is similar to the Ethereum ERC-20 standard. There are a few issues with using an escrow as the only avenue to pay for a service with a fungible token. This frequently requires more than one transaction for common scenarios where fungible tokens are given as payment with the expectation that a method will subsequently be called.

For example, an oracle contract might be paid in fungible tokens. A client contract that wishes to use the oracle must either increase the escrow allowance before each request to the oracle contract, or allocate a large allowance that covers multiple calls. Both have drawbacks and ultimately it would be ideal to be able to send fungible tokens and call a method in a single transaction. This concern is addressed in the ft_transfer_call method. The power of this comes from the receiver contract working in concert with the fungible token contract in a secure way. That is, if the receiver contract abides by the standard, a single transaction may transfer and call a method.

Note: there is no reason why an escrow system cannot be included in a fungible token's implementation, but it is simply not necessary in the core standard. Escrow logic should be moved to a separate contract to handle that functionality. One reason for this is because the Rainbow Bridge will be transferring fungible tokens from Ethereum to NEAR, where the token locker (a factory) will be using the fungible token core standard.

## **Specification and function headers**

NOTES

- All amounts, balances and allowance are limited by U128 (max value 2\*\*128 - 1).
- Token standard uses JSON for serialization of arguments and results.
- Amounts in arguments and results have are serialized as Base-10 strings, e.g. "100". This is done to avoid JSON limitation of max integer value of 2\*\*53.
- The contract must track the change in storage when adding to and removing from collections. This is not included in this core fungible token standard but instead in the Storage Standard.
- To prevent the deployed contract from being modified or deleted, it should not have any access keys on its account.

INTERFACE

**ft_transfer**

Simple transfer to a receiver.

Requirements:

- Caller of the method must attach a deposit of 1 yoctoⓃ for security purposes
- Caller must have greater than or equal to the amount being requested

Arguments:

- receiver_id: the valid NEAR account receiving the fungible tokens.
- amount: the number of tokens to transfer, wrapped in quotes and treated like a string, although the number will be stored as an unsigned integer with 128 bits.
- memo (optional): for use cases that may benefit from indexing or providing information for a transfer.

```
function ft_transfer(
    receiver_id: string,
    amount: string,
    memo: string|null
): void
```

**ft_transfer_call**

Transfer tokens and call a method on a receiver contract. A successful workflow will end in a success execution outcome to the callback on the same contract at the method ft_resolve_transfer. You can think of this as being similar to attaching native NEAR tokens to a function call. It allows you to attach any Fungible Token in a call to a receiver contract.

Requirements:

- Caller of the method must attach a deposit of 1 yoctoⓃ for security purposes
- Caller must have greater than or equal to the amount being requested
- The receiving contract must implement ft_on_transfer according to the standard. If it does not, FT contract's ft_resolve_transfer MUST deal with the resulting failed cross-contract call and roll back the transfer.
- Contract MUST implement the behavior described in ft_resolve_transfer

Arguments:

- receiver_id: the valid NEAR account receiving the fungible tokens.
- amount: the number of tokens to transfer, wrapped in quotes and treated like a string, although the number will be stored as an unsigned integer with 128 bits.
- memo (optional): for use cases that may benefit from indexing or providing information for a transfer.
- msg: specifies information needed by the receiving contract in order to properly handle the transfer. Can indicate both a function to call and the parameters to pass to that function.

```
function ft_transfer_call(
   receiver_id: string,
   amount: string,
   memo: string|null,
   msg: string
): Promise
```

**ft_on_transfer**

This function is implemented on the receiving contract. As mentioned, the msg argument contains information necessary for the receiving contract to know how to process the request. This may include method names and/or arguments. Returns a value, or a promise which resolves with a value. The value is the number of unused tokens in string form. For instance, if amount is 10 but only 9 are needed, it will return "1".
function ft_on_transfer(
sender_id: string,
amount: string,
msg: string
): string

## **View Methods**

**ft_total_supply**

Returns the total supply of fungible tokens as a string representing the value as an unsigned 128-bit integer.

```
function ft_total_supply(): string
```

**ft_balance_of**

Returns the balance of an account in string form representing a value as an unsigned 128-bit integer. If the account doesn't exist must returns "0".

```
function ft_balance_of(
account_id: string
): string
```

**ft_resolve_transfer**

The following behavior is required, but contract authors may name this function something other than the conventional ft_resolve_transfer used here.

Finalize an ft_transfer_call chain of cross-contract calls.

The ft_transfer_call process:

1. Sender calls ft_transfer_call on FT contract
2. FT contract transfers amount tokens from sender to receiver
3. FT contract calls ft_on_transfer on receiver contract 4+. [receiver contract may make other cross-contract calls] N. FT contract resolves promise chain with ft_resolve_transfer, and may refund sender some or all of original amount

Requirements:

- Contract MUST forbid calls to this function by any account except self
- If promise chain failed, contract MUST revert token transfer
- If promise chain resolves with a non-zero amount given as a string, contract MUST return this amount of tokens to sender_id
  Arguments:

- sender_id: the sender of ft_transfer_call
- receiver_id: the receiver_id argument given to ft_transfer_call
- amount: the amount argument given to ft_transfer_call

Returns a string representing a string version of an unsigned 128-bit integer of how many total tokens were spent by sender_id. Example: if sender calls ft_transfer_call({ "amount": "100" }), but receiver_id only uses 80, ft_on_transfer will resolve with "20", and ft_resolve_transfer will return "80".

```
function ft_resolve_transfer(
sender_id: string,
receiver_id: string,
amount: string
): string

```

## **Events**

Standard interfaces for FT contract actions that extend NEP-297

NEAR and third-party applications need to track mint, transfer, burn events for all FT-driven apps consistently. This extension addresses that.

Keep in mind that applications, including NEAR Wallet, could require implementing additional methods, such as ft_metadata, to display the FTs correctly.

## **Event Interface**

Fungible Token Events MUST have standard set to "nep141", standard version set to "1.0.0", event value is one of ft_mint, ft_burn, ft_transfer, and data must be of one of the following relevant types: FtMintLog[] | FtTransferLog[] | FtBurnLog[]:

```

interface FtEventLogData {
standard: "nep141",
version: "1.0.0",
event: "ft_mint" | "ft_burn" | "ft_transfer",
data: FtMintLog[] | FtTransferLog[] | FtBurnLog[],
}
// An event log to capture tokens minting
// Arguments
// _ `owner_id`: "account.near"
// _ `amount`: the number of tokens to mint, wrapped in quotes and treated
// like a string, although the number will be stored as an unsigned integer
// with 128 bits.
// \* `memo`: optional message
interface FtMintLog {
owner_id: string,
amount: string,
memo?: string
}

// An event log to capture tokens burning
// Arguments
// _ `owner_id`: owner of tokens to burn
// _ `amount`: the number of tokens to burn, wrapped in quotes and treated
// like a string, although the number will be stored as an unsigned integer
// with 128 bits.
// \* `memo`: optional message
interface FtBurnLog {
owner_id: string,
amount: string,
memo?: string
}

// An event log to capture tokens transfer
// Arguments
// _ `old_owner_id`: "owner.near"
// _ `new_owner_id`: "receiver.near"
// _ `amount`: the number of tokens to transfer, wrapped in quotes and treated
// like a string, although the number will be stored as an unsigned integer
// with 128 bits.
// _ `memo`: optional message
interface FtTransferLog {
old_owner_id: string,
new_owner_id: string,
amount: string,
memo?: string
}

```

```

```
